XIII - NOTHING LEFT
- AMICIA: Please, Hugo.
Say something.
Look at me... Please...
I need you.
- LUCAS: Amicia, we can't stay here.
- AMICIA: He won't talk to me.
- LUCAS: We need to leave.
- AMICIA: Hugo, answer me.
- LUCAS: Amicia, we need to leave!
- AMICIA: To go where?
- LUCAS: The harbour.
We're leaving this place.
- AMICIA: I want... rest.
- LUCAS: You can rest when you're safe.
- AMICIA: We will never be, Lucas. Never!
There can be no peace for us...
Look at him.
- LUCAS: I'll lead the way.
Don't think, just follow me.
I'll be your path,
for the both of you.
I'll carry you if I must.
But I'm taking you out of here.
Take a deep breath and stand up.
You did it.
Come on, Hugo.
Good.
I'm taking you out of here.
- AMICIA: (GROANS)
- LUCAS: Is it the arm?
- AMICIA: Shoulder.
- LUCAS: We have to fix it.
- AMICIA: Do it.
- LUCAS: Don't move.
It's gonna hurt.
Are you alright?
Come on.
Hugo.
Let's go.
- AMICIA: (GROANS) Breathe...
- LUCAS: There has to be a way out.
Look! Up there! An opening!
It's our way out.
- AMICIA: How do we...?
- LUCAS: The upper floor.
There may be things up there we can use.
- AMICIA: I'll look. Stay with him.
- LUCAS: Amicia, you're still hurt.
- AMICIA: Try to bring him back.
However you can.
Please...
- LUCAS: Fine.
But don't go too far.
- AMICIA: Here.
- LUCAS: Well, Hugo. I think
you can hear me.
Keep going.
- LUCAS: I'm sorry. I need to know
if you're alright.
- AMICIA: Locked.
Can't move this thing from here.
- LUCAS: Skin's pale.
The Macula's mark though.
It looks larger.
Must mirror the spread
inside your mind.
Let me see your eyes.
Pupils look dilated.
You're barely blinking.
- AMICIA: Come on. (GROANS)
(BREATHES HEAVILY) Hold on.
You have to hold on.
What a mess...
I can't...
(SOBBING) Oh... please...
Please... How am I going to do this?
(SOBBING) Please.
(SOBBING) I can't...
(SOBBING) Help me...
(SOBBING) Lord...
(SOBBING)
Stop... Stop!
(SNIFFS) Stand up!
Stand up and go!
A pole with a rope...
- LUCAS: Hugo,
if you can hear my voice...
Move one of your fingers.
- AMICIA: Be careful!
- LUCAS: Wow.
That's something. Good work!
We'll try to climb up.
- AMICIA: (GROANS) Yes.
- LUCAS: Are you... alright?
- AMICIA: How is he?
- LUCAS: His mind is... extinguished.
I think it's not just the shock.
It's the Macula.
- AMICIA: So he's not... coming back?
- LUCAS: Not yet.
- AMICIA: Let's use this thing.
- LUCAS: Come on, Hugo.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
- LUCAS: It's stuck!
(PANTING)
It's too high!
- AMICIA: There's no other way, Lucas.
- LUCAS: Amicia... Let's push.
And see what's behind.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
(RATS SQUEAKING)
It extinguished the flames...
- AMICIA: We saw those things
inside the Carrier's tomb.
- HUGO: It will kill the sun.
- AMICIA: What?
- LUCAS: The Sun Killer...
The Light Devourer.
It's the Nebula,
the old texts talk about. It's real!
- HUGO: I'm home.
- AMICIA: No! This isn't home!
Hugo, look at me!
- LUCAS: It's not him, Amicia.
It's the Macula talking try to fill the void.
Left by your mother's death.
- AMICIA: I... I should've saved her... But...
We can still finish this.
You hear me Hugo?
We can fight that bastard Count!
And kill him!
- LUCAS: No, enough!
Amicia, we need to leave this damn rock
and take him away from here.
He's drowning...
Amicia, focus!
You need to push back.
Talk to him.
Keep him afloat.
He needs you.
Alright.
Alright...
Stay very close!
- LUCAS: The Nebula's all around us.
Mind your torch!
- AMICIA: Yes.
- LUCAS: Watch out!
- AMICIA: (GASPS) What is... (COUGHS)
- LUCAS: That's what I was talking about.
(COUGHS)
Stay away from those fumes.
- AMICIA: (COUGHS) It burns!
- LUCAS: Stay cautious. There's more!
- AMICIA: I see them!
- LUCAS: Careful!
- AMICIA: (COUGHS)
This is... worse than anything...
- LUCAS: Oh no!
- AMICIA: Ah...
It knows we're here.
- LUCAS: So what? Move!
- AMICIA: I think... he's doing it.
- LUCAS: What?
- AMICIA: I felt his body... Spasm...
Right before it all burst.
- LUCAS: I told you!
His bond with the Macula
is getting stronger.
- AMICIA: I know you're still there, Hugo.
Please, hold.
Oh God!
- LUCAS: Bloody hell!
We need to be more careful.
- AMICIA: Lucas, there's...
something ahead.
- LUCAS: I see it.
What the hell?
It cannot be...
- AMICIA: How many are there inside?
- HUGO: Yes... I'm here.
- AMICIA: Hey!
- AMICIA: Let's go, Lucas. Now!
- LUCAS: Yes.
- AMICIA: Come, Hugo.
- HUGO: No!
I'm staying!
- AMICIA: There's nothing here for you!
- HUGO: This is home!
This is...
- AMICIA: Stop! You're coming with me!
Whether you want to or not!
You hear me? He's coming with ME!
(RUMBLING)
- LUCAS: You made it so angry...
They're coming... RUN!
Stay close to the wall!
- AMICIA: Quick!
They'll tear this place apart!
Up! Fast!
- LUCAS: Oh no no no!
Don't look back! RUN!!!!
There's a drop here!
Don't slow down!
- AMICIA: Down! Go down! Quick!
- LUCAS: Oh, this is so bad!
- AMICIA: There's sunlight at the back!
Run to it as fast as you can!!!
(COUGHING)
Damn you! Damn you all!
We're getting out of here!
You won't take him! You hear?
It's over!!!!
(COUGHING)
- LUCAS: Breathe...
(COUGHS) Breathe.
- AMICIA: Hugo...
Hugo?
See?
There's still light.
Yes...
That's our blood.
(MAIN THEME MUSIC PLAYING SOFTLY)
That's you.
We're not done yet.
We should go.
- LUCAS: Yes. I'm ready.
- AMICIA: We still have to reach the harbour.
- LUCAS: Wait...
The village...
There's something wrong with the sea.
- AMICIA: The land is gone.
- HUGO: It's me...
- AMICIA: No...
- HUGO: I did this.
- LUCAS: The rats did.
- HUGO: I did.
I did it.
- AMICIA: No! The Count and Countess did.
Let's go.
Let's just go.
- LUCAS: Goodness.
The tremors brought those bloody eggs
out in the open.
- AMICIA: Yes, they're still here.
- HUGO: Always.
Always in my head.
- AMICIA: Hugo.
- LUCAS: Let him, Amicia.
- HUGO: You are not in charge.
I am the one in charge!!
- HUGO: You obey me! You hear me?
YOU OBEY... ME!!
- LUCAS: Alright... I think they heard you.
- AMICIA: I've never seen you do this.
- HUGO: Because it hurts.
- AMICIA: I'm sorry.
- LUCAS: How deep does this thing go?
There's not a rock left visible.
- AMICIA: I don't want to know.
- SOLDIER 1: Damn. You felt that?
That tremor wrecked the oil jars.
- AMICIA: Soldiers.
- SOLDIER 2: Why do we
still want the child?
He will be the end of us!
He ruined everything!
- SOLDIER 1: This happened because
he's under the influence of that Defiler girl!
That's why the Count wants her dead
at all costs.
- SOLDIER 3: Er...
Let's hope it works.
- LUCAS: "Defilier?"
You've earned a new title, Amicia.
- AMICIA: The Count's still alive
and spreading his lies.
Anyway, they're after us so watch out!
(SOLDIER SCREAMS)
- AMICIA: That's one.
Come along, up.
- HUGO: On my way.
- LUCAS: They still want you dead.
Even in the middle of this mess.
- AMICIA: They'd rather kill someone
than face their own end. Nothing new.
Hugo, are you still alright?
- HUGO: I don't know.
- AMICIA: Alright.
Just try to stay calm.
How many of (INAUDIBLE)?
(WAVES CRASHING)
- LUCAS: That gate up there!
I think it's... the village entrance.
- AMICIA: What's left of it.
That's too high.
We need something to reach it.
This, maybe?
- LUCAS: Let's go, quick!
- SOLDIER: Hide all you want!
I'm coming for you!
Hiding always. (SCOFFS)
I'll still find you!
(SCREAMS)
(SCREAMING)
- AMICIA: Come on, up, up.
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: We're in.
- LUCAS: There's a boat, over there.
- AMICIA: Yes! Please be alive.
Please be alive!
- SOLDIER 1: I can't believe
our Countess is dead.
I heard the Count is so devastated
that he won't even be there for the hanging.
They built a gallows
on the harbour's square for Arnaud.
- SOLDIER 2: They're hanging The Wall?
Damn, I wanted to see that!
- SOLDIER 1: Yes, me too.
- HUGO: He's not dead.
He needs us.
- AMICIA: We don't have time.
- HUGO: We must go.
- AMICIA: Really?
Even after what he's done?
Alright.
We need to reach that harbour anyway.
We get Arnaud on the way
and we get out of here.
Mind the drop.
- HUGO: Uh huh.
(GROUND RUMBLING)
- LUCAS: There it goes.
(SOLDIER SCREAMS)
(RATS SQUEAKING)
- AMICIA: Come on, come on.
- LUCAS: Calm down.
We're making it.
- AMICIA: I really hope Sophia's alive.
- LUCAS: I'd really like to meet
someone who doesn't want to kill us.
- SOLDIER 1: Any news from the palace?
- SOLDIER 2: Nothing yet.
The Count must be burying his spouse.
That must be terrible.
When you see what they do
to the people they catch...
- SOLDIER 1: Yes, we have our dead too.
- SOLDIER 2: And most of them won't get a proper grave.
- SOLDIER 1: Talk about Brighter Days.
This place looks like proper Hell!
- SOLDIER 2: The Child will fix this!
- SOLDIER 1: The Child did this!
- SOLDIER 2: He did this because of her!
But the Count will teach him.
He'll show him the way
to shine on the world.
- SOLDIER 1: I just hope I'm alive to see it.
- SOLDIER: Man down! Watch out!
- LUCAS: The belfry.
It seems to be the only way
to the other side of the village.
- AMICIA: Barely hanging
above the water but...
- LUCAS: No choice, I assume?
- AMICIA: No choice.
Let's see what's inside.
- LUCAS: (SIGHS) It held.
- AMICIA: Yes... Now where's Arnaud?
- HUGO: We must go faster.
They're going to kill him.
- AMICIA: We're doing all we can.
- HUGO: If they kill him,
I'll kill all of them!
- AMICIA: You won't have to.
We'll get him out of there.
And Sophia too.
Come on, up.
- HUGO: Alright.
- AMICIA: Careful with the drop here.
- HUGO: Yes.
- SOLDIER: See that lads? (CHUCKLES)
That roaring pig is all quiet now.
- AMICIA: Lord... Let's go.
We have to get closer.
- LUCAS: So this is the Arnaud?
The one they call The Wall?
- HUGO: Yes. We have to save him.
- AMICIA: Even if he doesn't deserve it.
- LUCAS: I see.
You've put together quite the troop.
- AMICIA: Up.
Climb up.
- HUGO: Uh huh.
- SOLDIER 1: How'd you like your "necklace", Arnaud?
- SOLDIER 2: This is The Wall? (SCOFFS)
Looks just like a pile of crap now!
- AMICIA: Quiet.
Let's move closer.
- LUCAS: It's... crowded.
- AMICIA: Yes, get ready.
Those jars of tar right next to them...
- HUGO: Now, Amicia. Do something!
- AMICIA: Leave it to me.
(SOLDIERS SCREAMING)
- HUGO: We're here, Arnaud!
- ARNAUD: I'll be damned.
Did you come here to finish me?
- AMICIA: Shut up!
We're taking you out of here.
- ARNAUD: Ha!
- SOLDIER: It's her! The Defiler!
She has the Child! Take him away from her!
- HUGO: No!
- AMICIA: Stick with me!
- LUCAS: Trust her, Hugo!
- SOLDIER: This is not just for us!
This Child belongs to the world!
He's our future! Fight for it!
You've doomed this island!
- HUGO: Be quiet!
- AMICIA: Ignore them, Hugo!
- LUCAS: We're here with you!
We're going home!
- ARNAUD: Come on!
Kill the damn bastards!
- LUCAS: I have a few Extinguis, I'll help!
- AMICIA: Yes!
- SOLDIER: You!
Filthy wretch!
Our Countess was a servant of light!
And you murdered her!
- AMICIA: She died because
she didn't want to see the truth!
Just like the rest of you!
(RINGING SOUND)
- SOLDIER: Reinforcements NOW!
Kill that girl!
- ARNAUD: More of them coming!
- LUCAS: Hang on, Amicia!
You're doing it!
- AMICIA: Yes!
- ARNAUD: They've got reinforcements!
Come on! Finish these puppets!
- AMICIA: What do you think I'm doing?
- ARNAUD: I wonder!
- HUGO: Try and I'll kill you!
- AMICIA: Don't! You won't have to, Hugo!
I promise!
- ARNAUD: Do you mind taking
this bloody rope off my neck?
- AMICIA: Yes... Right.
- ARNAUD: Watch out!
Heavy bastards are approaching!
- SOLDIER: This is it! It's over!
You've done enough damage!
- AMICIA: Oh no...
Hugo! Stay here!
Surrender the Child
and you'll get a quick death!
- HUGO: Never!
We're here to save you, Child!
- HUGO: Wrong!
(INDISTINCT SCREAMING)
(PANTING)
- ARNAUD: Bloody hell...
- AMICIA: It's over now.
- LUCAS: We did it, Hugo.
- AMICIA: Yes.
Breathe...
Calm down now.
Let's free Arnaud, right?
- ARNAUD: Yes... please...
- AMICIA: Come on.
- LUCAS: Hugo says it was his.
- AMICIA: Sophia!
- SOPHIA: You took your sweet time!
Come aboard.
Go collapse somewhere.
Wait.
And your mother?
- HUGO: She won't come back.
- AMICIA: We must go. Now.
- SOPHIA: I see...
I'll take it from here.
You. Come.
- HUGO: She's never coming back.
- AMICIA: I know.
- HUGO: I-I wanted to tell her...
...a lot of things.
- AMICIA: Me too.
But she knew.
Everything... already.
You're her greatest gift.
She loved you the way you are.
The way she made you.
We will live.
And we will heal.
The scars...
We keep them, so that we don't forget,
So that we can accept.
Until they don't hurt anymore.